index.md, before:

---
publish: true
title: gov/acc
subtitle: Accelerating Governance Innovation in Web3
---

## Overview

gov/acc is a research program focused on accelerating governance innovation and experimentation in web3 communities. As part of the broader https://vitalik.eth.link/general/2025/01/05/dacc2.html, we believe that better governance infrastructure is essential for building coordination mechanisms that can solve critical problems in novel ways.

This program is conducted in public, with the hope of encouraging more data sharing, collaborative learning, and open research beyond what any single organization could achieve alone. We're building in the open to make governance innovation more accessible, participatory, and impactful.

Read the introduction: [gov/acc: Accelerating Governance Innovation in Web3](https://medium.com/@eugene.leventhal/gov-acc-accelerating-governance-innovation-in-web3-31309f06ab63), and see our [[Research Program Plan]].

Our work begins with:

- Producing an initial web3 governance research roadmap, which will be presented at the first gov/acc workshop around https://ethcc.io/
- Writing a revised [Open Problems in DAOs](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.19201) centered around industry problems
- Experimenting with and documenting the use of relevant deliberative, governance, and other relevant tooling
- Building a community of practioners and researchers who are looking to collaborate in 2026
- Seeing what emerges as we go

---

## Project Management

We manage this research program using public GitHub project boards, allowing anyone to follow along with our progress, contribute ideas, or adapt our approach for their own work.

View the active project board: [gov/acc Project Tracker](https://github.com/users/[YOUR-USERNAME]/projects/[PROJECT-NUMBER])

*Note: Project board link will be updated once GitHub Projects is configured*

---

## Projects & Working Groups

### Research Roadmap

A systematic effort to map the landscape of governance challenges in web3 and identify potential solution pathways. Through structured activities in January and February 2025, we're working to:

- Source and categorize key governance problems from practitioners and researchers
- Develop a tech tree roadmap showing problem dependencies and solution approaches
- Document who is working on what, identifying gaps and collaboration opportunities
- Create a shared resource for the community to understand the governance innovation landscape

### Methodology

We're using a combination of interviews, surveys, and collaborative mapping sessions to gather input from diverse stakeholders. The methodology is being developed in parallel with the research itself.

### Resources

- [Working Methodology Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1f9LN5qlUXXMXinJuzfPmr2USu-2zlx2BZDXEbWpTfdI/edit?usp=sharing) (in development)
- Public mapping sessions and workshops (scheduled for Jan-Feb 2025)

---

## Open Problems in DAOs - Industry Focus Edition

Building on the original [Open Problems in DAOs](https://arxiv.org/html/2310.19201v2) paper, this revision will shift focus toward practical industry challenges facing governance practitioners today.

While the original paper provided an academic foundation for understanding DAO research questions, this version will center on the operational, technical, and coordination problems that organizations actually face when implementing decentralized governance. The goal is to bridge academic research with practitioner needs.

### Collaboration

This project involves several authors from the original paper and will incorporate findings from the governance problem mapping exercise.

### Status

Scoping and planning phase. Expected to begin active research in Q1 2025.

---

## Get Involved

This research program benefits from diverse perspectives and lived experience with governance challenges. Whether you're a DAO operator, protocol governance participant, researcher, or builder of governance infrastructure, there are ways to contribute.

Join the conversation: Connect with us in the Metagov Slack community

[Join Metagov Community](https://metagov.org/join/community) → Look for the #govacc channel

### Ways to participate:

- Share governance challenges you've observed or experienced
- Contribute to the problem mapping exercise
- Review and provide feedback on research findings
- Connect us with others working on related problems
- Collaborate on specific research questions

For research collaborations or specific inquiries, reach out through the Metagov Slack or via Metagov's contact channels.

---

*gov/acc is a research program of Metagov, a laboratory for self-governance on the internet.*

*This site and all research outputs are works in progress, conducted in public for collaborative learning.*

Commit message:

Added link to survey on homepage

index.md, after:

---
publish: true
title: gov/acc
subtitle: Accelerating Governance Innovation in Web3
---

## Overview

gov/acc is a research program focused on accelerating governance innovation and experimentation in web3 communities. As part of the broader https://vitalik.eth.link/general/2025/01/05/dacc2.html, we believe that better governance infrastructure is essential for building coordination mechanisms that can solve critical problems in novel ways.

This program is conducted in public, with the hope of encouraging more data sharing, collaborative learning, and open research beyond what any single organization could achieve alone. We're building in the open to make governance innovation more accessible, participatory, and impactful.

Read the introduction: [gov/acc: Accelerating Governance Innovation in Web3](https://medium.com/@eugene.leventhal/gov-acc-accelerating-governance-innovation-in-web3-31309f06ab63), see our [[Research Program Plan]], and contribute to our research through [this survey](https://app.harmonica.chat/chat?s=hst_a51081812ed9).

Our work begins with:

- Producing an initial web3 governance research roadmap, which will be presented at the first gov/acc workshop around https://ethcc.io/
- Writing a revised [Open Problems in DAOs](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.19201) centered around industry problems
- Experimenting with and documenting the use of relevant deliberative, governance, and other relevant tooling
- Building a community of practioners and researchers who are looking to collaborate in 2026
- Seeing what emerges as we go

---

## Project Management

We manage this research program using public GitHub project boards, allowing anyone to follow along with our progress, contribute ideas, or adapt our approach for their own work.

View the active project board: [gov/acc Project Tracker](https://github.com/users/[YOUR-USERNAME]/projects/[PROJECT-NUMBER])

*Note: Project board link will be updated once GitHub Projects is configured*

---

## Projects & Working Groups

### Research Roadmap

A systematic effort to map the landscape of governance challenges in web3 and identify potential solution pathways. Through structured activities in January and February 2025, we're working to:

- Source and categorize key governance problems from practitioners and researchers
- Develop a tech tree roadmap showing problem dependencies and solution approaches
- Document who is working on what, identifying gaps and collaboration opportunities
- Create a shared resource for the community to understand the governance innovation landscape

### Methodology

We're using a combination of interviews, surveys, and collaborative mapping sessions to gather input from diverse stakeholders. The methodology is being developed in parallel with the research itself.

### Resources

- [Working Methodology Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1f9LN5qlUXXMXinJuzfPmr2USu-2zlx2BZDXEbWpTfdI/edit?usp=sharing) (in development)
- Public mapping sessions and workshops (scheduled for Jan-Feb 2025)

---

## Open Problems in DAOs - Industry Focus Edition

Building on the original [Open Problems in DAOs](https://arxiv.org/html/2310.19201v2) paper, this revision will shift focus toward practical industry challenges facing governance practitioners today.

While the original paper provided an academic foundation for understanding DAO research questions, this version will center on the operational, technical, and coordination problems that organizations actually face when implementing decentralized governance. The goal is to bridge academic research with practitioner needs.

### Collaboration

This project involves several authors from the original paper and will incorporate findings from the governance problem mapping exercise.

### Status

Scoping and planning phase. Expected to begin active research in Q1 2025.

---

## Get Involved

This research program benefits from diverse perspectives and lived experience with governance challenges. Whether you're a DAO operator, protocol governance participant, researcher, or builder of governance infrastructure, there are ways to contribute.

Join the conversation: Connect with us in the Metagov Slack community

[Join Metagov Community](https://metagov.org/join/community) → Look for the #govacc channel

### Ways to participate:

- Share governance challenges you've observed or experienced
- Contribute to the problem mapping exercise
- Review and provide feedback on research findings
- Connect us with others working on related problems
- Collaborate on specific research questions

For research collaborations or specific inquiries, reach out through the Metagov Slack or via Metagov's contact channels.

---

*gov/acc is a research program of Metagov, a laboratory for self-governance on the internet.*

*This site and all research outputs are works in progress, conducted in public for collaborative learning.*
